# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 14 December 2020

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time (next day)

## Summary of actions

- **Nidal Faour** to submit Pull request, Erin Olson, Mark Himelstein to review
- **Ray Simar** and his team to give update at January 11 meeting.
- **Ofer Shinaar, Ronen Haen** to submit pull-request to convert interrupt handling/context switching repository to a Python based build system.
- **Jeremy Bennett** to draft press release for review by David Patterson
- **Ray Simar** to explore potential for joint announcement from Rice
- **All** to consider providing quotations of support
- **Jeremy Bennett** to rename repositories to reflect market segment rathe
r than engineering functionality, with redirection from existing repositories.
- **Jeremy Bennett** to follow up with EEMBC in early 2021 to discuss progress and explore whether they are yet ready to engage further.
- **Jeremy Bennett** to follow up with Jon Taylor at Arm in early 2021 to explore whether they wish to engage more.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

New participants:

- Alexander Tessarolo, Texas Instruments, architecting MCUs, wants to learn more about and potentially contribute to Embench.

## Actions from previous meeting

**Jeremy Bennett** to merge pull-request [#100](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/100) in the `embench-iot` repository.

- complete.

**Jeremy Bennett** to restore the standard presentation into Google Docs

- in progress.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-context-latency:

[#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-context-latency/pull/2) Add interrupt latency code

- submitted by Ronen Haen
- awaiting review by Cesare Garlati

### From embench-iot:

[#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5Sum benchmark

- submitted by Julian Kunkel
- see agenda item [Getting to release 1.0](#getting-to-release-10)

## New GitHub issues

### From embench-iot:

[#103](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/103) Timeout bug in `build_all.py`

- caused by unset variable
- assigned to Paolo Savini
- thanks to Roger Shepherd for raising this
- Paolo Savini noted that this was more complex than just fixing the uninitialized variable, because it is used elsewhere
- Nidal Faour has a fix to the bug
- **ACTION:** Nidal Faour to submit Pull request, Erin Olson, Mark Himelstein to review

## Update on benchmarks

### embench-iot

Nothing to report this month.

### embench-fp

Ray Simar noted that Rice is in middle of finals, so no significant progress this month. However now getting flow up and running. All students have ST Discovery cards to use for development. They will start submitting pull requests. Have also added one new team member, recently joined Rice faculty having completed his PhD.

Four DSP benchmarks have benn written, but not yet running.

**ACTION:** Ray Simar's team to give update at January 11 meeting.

### Interrupt handling/context switching

It was noted noted that this repository still uses Make rather than the Python build system used elsewhere.  It would make sense to use the Python system.

**ACTION:** Ofer Shinaar, Ronen Haen to submit pull-request to convert interrupt handling/context switching repository to a Python based build system.

## Getting to release 1.0

The meeting had general support for this taking place for Embench IoT at the start of 2021. Publicise and get quotes of support from participants.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to draft press release for review by David Patterson

**ACTION:** Ray Simar to explore potential for joint announcement from Rice

**ACTION:** All to consider providing quotations of support

This will allow potential new benchmarks for a future release 2.0 to be considered.

### Other benchmark suites

The suggestion was accepted to rename benchmarks by market segment, rather than engineering functionality. This is already the case for Embench IoT

- Floating point benchmarks to be renamed as Embench DSP
- Context switching/interrupt latency to be renamed as a Embench Real Time

Roadmap then allows for other segments, such as AI/ML/neural networks/infererence.  We can potentially bless/reuse other benchmark suites where appropriate.

It was observed that bencharks for real time need to focus on complete signal chain, not just the interrupt delay, context switch etc. But they beed to break out the cost of each step in the chain.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to rename repositories to reflect market segment rathe
r than engineering functionality, with redirection from existing repositories.

## Publicity

### Recent publicity

David Patterson mentioned Embench widely in discussions at RISC-V

Jeremy Bennett noted that he was increasingly seeing Embench being used routinely when talking to customers and potential customers.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to follow up with EEMBC in early 2021 to discuss progress and explore whether they are yet ready to engage further.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to follow up with Jon Taylor at Arm in early 2021 to explore whether they wish to engage more.

### Presentations at future meetings

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California
time, but note that our next meeing has been brought forward to 11 January
2021 to avoid Martin Luther King Jr day in the USA.

- Mon 11 Jan 2021 (week 2)
- Mon 15 Feb 2021
- Mon 15 Mar 2021
- Mon 19 Apr 2021
- Mon 17 May 2021
- Mon 21 Jun 2021
- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide
automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

I anticipate changing the Zoom meeting credentials from January. Zoom are increasingly unhappy with meetings not having passwords.  The details will be reflected in the calendar entry and circulated as a link with the meeting agenda.


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
