# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 16 November 2020

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time (next day)

## Summary of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** to merge pull-request [#100](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/100) in the `embench-iot` repository.

**Jeremy Bennett** to restore the standard presentation into Google Docs

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

New participants:

- Julian Kunkel, Reading University
- Ronen Haen, Western Digital

## Actions from previous meeting

**Jeremy Bennett, Stephan Wallentowitz.** Complete interview blog post on website.

- complete.

**Jeremy Bennett.** Add tutorial example to reproduce baseline results in documentation.

- captured as GitHub issue [#68](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/68)

**Roger Shepherd.** Provide Embench results for ST dev boards, Apple Macs and Raspberry Pi.

- Roger to report progress in agenda item [Benchmarking other platforms](#benchmarking-other-platforms)
- ongoing action.

**Jeremy Bennett, Paolo Savini.** Attempt to get results for Atmel AVR using Arduino.

- Paolo to report progress in agenda item [Benchmarking other platforms](#benchmarking-other-platforms)
- ongoing action.

**Jeremy Bennett.** Explore alternatives to Google Docs for presentations

- propose suspending, see agenda item [PR materials in development](#pr-materials-in-development)

**Ray Simar.** Set class project to come up with new benchmarks based on the TinyML book.

- Ray to report progress in agenda item [Embench 0.6](#embench-0.6)
- ongoing action.

**Jeremy Bennett.** Update documentation to advise that Python minimum version 3.6 is required.

- no progress.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-context-latency:

[#1](https://github.com/embench/embench-context-latency/pull/1) RV interrupt latency benchmark proposal

- Ronen Haen to report in agenda item [Updates to the interrupt latency/context switching benchmark](#updates-to-the-interrupt-latencycontext-switching-benchmark)

### From embench-iot:

[#100](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/100) Update `benchmark_speed.py` with new option to run benchmarks in Python.

- Erin Olsen to report in agenda item [Parallel Embench](#parallel-embench).

[#101](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/101) Updating URL to BEEBS benchmark

- withdrawn, since fixed by PR [#102](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/102)

[#102](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/102) Update links to BEEBS

- resolves issue [#96](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/96)

### From embench-iot-results:

None

## New GitHub issues

### From embench-iot:

[#96](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/96) Explanation / Origin of benchmarks (beebs.eu link broken, due to a failure to renew domain)

- website moved to https://beebs.mageec.org/
- marked as bug, fixed by Jeremy Bennett in commit [bae259a](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/commit/bae259abe0e9544445d7e21bcade810edd39ec23)
- thanks to Nagendra Gulur for raising this

[#98](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/98) Queries on Embench benchmarks

- advice sought for Arm Cortex M55F
- suggestions provided by Paolo Savini
- thanks to Sheena Goel for raising this issue adn Paolo Savini for the support.

[#99](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/99) Advice sought on how to run individual tests

- suggestions provided
- thanks to Sheena Goel for raising this issue.

### From embench-iot-results:

None

## Update on benchmarks

### Benchmarking other platforms

Roger Shepherd limited progress on benchmarks. Also talked to Simon Mackintosh-Smith to get students involve.

Paolo Savini has only worked on issues.

### Parallel Embench

Erin Olson of Seagate presented her extensions to the build infrastructure to support parallel running of Embench benchmarks to reduce benchmark elapsed time.  This is currently available as a pull request [#100](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/100).  Reduces simulation runs from 8 hours to 50 minutes.

Output to terminal runs into issues - doesn't do newlines properly. Get staircase effect.  Output to log is fine.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to merge pull-request [#100](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/100) in the `embench-iot` repository.

### Embench 0.6

Ray Sinar reported on progress with his class at Rice University on Embench 0.6.  Graduate student Jennifer Hellar has joined the team.  Student team has four DSP benchmarks:

* FIR (Finite Impulse Response) filter
* IIR (Infinite Impulse Response) filter
* FFT, radix 2 (Fast discrete Fourier Transform)
* FFT, radix 4

All of the benchmarks have been written so that they are scalable as to data array sizes

Running native. Have ST Discovery boards distributed to students to bring up Arm baseline benchmark data.  Jennifer Hellar getting the Python flow going so students can get programs running.  Aim to have all working before classes resume in late January 2021.  Then graduate class will help add more benchmarks.

Aim to Ray's class to present at January meeting.

### Updates to the interrupt latency/context switching benchmark

This was always conceived of as a key part of Embench, with an initial framework created by Cesare Garlati of HexFive.  Ronen Haen of Western Digital presented his proposals to develop this further in pull request [#1](https://github.com/embench/embench-context-latency/pull/1).  This is an initial proposal for review, currently just for RISC-V and just for interrupt latency.

Discussion of how to generalize this to other cores seen as the main challenge.

### Volunteers wanted

Great to see the contributions this month from Seagate, Western Digital and Rice University.  A reminder that we continue to need volunteers to lead particular aspects of current and future efforts.

## Publicity

### Recent publicity

All are invited to report back. Here are some that we know about.

Karol Gugala's talk on the Embench Tester he has developed at Antmicro excited considerable interest and was subsequently presented the RISC-V Chairs Weekly meeting.

Jeremy Bennett presented a talk on automation of compiler development at the Huawei Russia workshop on modern compiler development.  Almost all the discussion was around the benchmarks used, the details of Embench were shared and attendees were encouraged to participate.

### PR materials in development

Stefan Wallentowitz has completed his interview style blog post about Embench, based on interview responses from Dave Patterson and Jeremy Bennett.

A new version of the standard presentation has been completed using Open Document Format.  The work to develop a version in Sphinx/Hieroglyph has not progressed.  The original rationale was to move away from Google Docs for fear that this would not be accessible to Chinese partipants.  It seems that this is less of an issue than anticipated.  However there is a still a case for the standard materials to use a technology which can be version controlled (neither Google Docs nor Open Document Format meet this criterion).

However pending development of a version controlled format of the slides, it is proposed that the slides be moved back to Google Docs, so that they are easily accessible to all.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to restore the standard presentation into Google Docs

### Website refresh

Stefan Wallentowitz advises that the refresh of the website will be completed in the next week.

### Presentations at future meetings

All are invited to suggest meeting where Embench should be presented.

### Paper

Idea of an archive paper with a collection of appendices that are extended. Nearly ready to go, just needs results.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time. Our future meetings will be. Note that the December date has been changed to avoid the week before Christmas.

- Mon 14 Dec 2020 (changed)

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 11 Jan 2021 (week 2 to keep clear of Martin Luther King Jr day)
- Mon 15 Feb 2021
- Mon 15 Mar 2021
- Mon 19 Apr 2021
- Mon 17 May 2021
- Mon 21 Jun 2021
- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide
automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

I have started to record meeting agendas, minutes and supplementary materials in a new [embench-meetings](https://github.com/embench/embench-meetings) repository.  This makes life slightly easier when putting together agendas and minutes, and makes locating materials easy.

Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
