# Embench Meeting Agenda

Monday 14 December 2020

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time (next day)

## Location

Zoom meeting using the same credentials as usual.

Please email me if you do not have the Zoom meeting details - I am reluctant to post details on an open mailing list.

# Agenda topics

## Actions from previous meeting

**Jeremy Bennett** to merge pull-request [#100](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/100) in the `embench-iot` repository.

- complete.

**Jeremy Bennett** to restore the standard presentation into Google Docs

- in progress.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-context-latency:

[#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-context-latency/pull/2) Add interrupt lat
ecy code

- submitted by Ronen Haen
- awaiting review by Cesare Garlati

### From embench-iot:

[#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5Sum benchmark

- submitted by Julian Kunkel
- see agenda item [Getting to release 1.0](getting-to-release-1.0)

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

[#103](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/103) Timeout bug in `build_all.py`

- caused by unset variable
- assigned to Paolo Savini
- thanks to Roger Shepherd for raising this

## Update on benchmarks

An invitation for those working on benchmarks to report on progress

- Paolo Savini and Roger Shepherd on `embench-iot` computational benchmarks
- Ray Sinar on `embench-fp` benchmarks
- Ronen Haen, Ray Sinar on context-switching/interrupt handling benchmarks

Michael Yuchao and Peter Chun of Huawei are working on fast interrupts and the new EABI for RISC-V. We have invited them to consider using and contributing to the work on context-switching/interrupt handling. Because of time difference they may not be able to contribute in person.

## Getting to release 1.0

The embench-iot benchmarks have been largely stable for much of the year, and are increasingly being used in academia and industry.  We are also being offered a number of new benchmarks, which we could use for refreshing the benchmarks in a future release 2.0.  This also give an opportunity for new groups coming into Embench to contribute fresh ideas.

As a starting point for discussion, I should like to propose.

- We declare the current Embench IoT code as release 1.0 on 1 January 2021, freezing the code in its own branch and tagging the code base.

  - from this point only fixing of bugs that have no impact on results will be considered for this branch.

- The main branch becomes the starting point for what will become Embench 2.0, with an encouragement at this stage to add more benchmarks.

  - the goal is to have enough benchmarks in two years' time that we can retire some existing benchmarks

- We maintain separate release statuses for each group of benchmarks.

  - currently Embench Floating Point and Embench context switch/interrupt handling

## Publicity

### Recent publicity

All are invited to report back.

### Presentations at future meetings, conferences etc.

All are invited to suggest meeting where Embench should be presented.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time. Our future meetings will be. Note that the January date has been brought forward one week to avoid clashing with Martin Luther King Jr day.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 11 Jan 2021 (week 2)
- Mon 15 Feb 2021
- Mon 15 Mar 2021
- Mon 19 Apr 2021
- Mon 17 May 2021
- Mon 21 Jun 2021
- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide
automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

I anticipate changing the Zoom meeting credentials from January. Zoom are increasingly unhappy with meetings not having passwords.  The details will be reflected in the calendar entry and circulated as a link with the meeting agenda.

Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
