# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 11 January 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time (next day)

## Summary of actions

- **All** to consider whether they can review [pull request #1](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/1).

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

New participants:

- Joe Young, Jennifer Hellar and Daniel RothFusz from Rice University

## Actions from previous meeting

- **Nidal Faour** to submit Pull request to fix issue [#103](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/103), Erin Olson, Mark Himelstein to review

	- Complete.

- **Ray Simar** and his team to give update at January 11 meeting.

	- See agenda item [Report from the Rice University team](#report-from-the-rice-university-team)

- **Ofer Shinaar, Ronen Haen** to submit pull-request to convert interrupt handling/context switching repository to a Python based build system.

	- Ofer & Ronen to provide status update.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to draft press release for review by David Patterson

	- In preparation for release on 19 January 2021. See agenda item [Release 1.0 update of embench-iot](#release-10-update-of-embench-iot)

- **Ray Simar** to explore potential for joint announcement from Rice

	- In progress.

- **All** to consider providing quotations of support

	- Any quotes still welcome.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to rename repositories to reflect market segment rather than engineering functionality, with redirection from existing repositories.

	- Complete. [embench-rt](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt) and [embench-dsp](https://github.com/embench/embench-dsp) created. `embench-context-latench` and `embench-fp` archived.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to follow up with EEMBC in early 2021 to discuss progress and explore whether they are yet ready to engage further.

	- Not progressed.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to follow up with Jon Taylor at Arm in early 2021 to explore whether they wish to engage more.

	- Not progressed.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

[#105](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/105) Resolve issue [#103](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/103).

- thanks to Nidal Faour for the fix.
- merged.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

[#106](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/106) Request for help setting up Gem simulator.

- invited to join meeting, issue assigned to Paolo Savini.
- thanks to user @guyue555 for raising this.

## Report from the Rice University team

Ray Simar and his team gave an update on their work, focussing on DSP
benchmarks.

- FIR, IIR filters, FFT
- can vary length of filter and length of data, controlled by parameter

Discussed the issue of scalability. Need to scale down sufficiently to cope with RTL simulation speed. Need to document the boundary of scability to get meaningful results. Generally lots of support for exploring scalability.

Question about whether the benchmarks generate exceptions.

- answer none, other than arithmetic

Interest in testing the V extension to RISC-V. Jeremy Bennett noted that the
Southampton University team are presenting their processor which has some V extension support at the London RISC-V meetup on Monday 18 January, and this is open source and includes a Verilator model.

## Reports on other benchmarks

Ronen Haen noted that his pull request on `embench-rt` needs review.

**Action:** All to consider whether they can review [pull request #1](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/1).

## Release 1.0 update of embench-iot

Jeremy Bennett presented an outline press release at the meeting. Quotes are being provided by David Patterson, Richard Bohn of Seagate and Ray Simar of Rice University. Intention is to go public on Tuesday 19 January.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 15 Feb 2021
- Mon 15 Mar 2021
- Mon 19 Apr 2021
- Mon 17 May 2021
- Mon 21 Jun 2021
- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

None.


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
