# Embench Meeting Agenda

***For Monday 20 March 2023***

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time

## Location

[Zoom meeting link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/557006550?pwd=eTFJNWszZDZhMGRwOCs4RDY3ZTFYQT09)

# Agenda topics

## Welcome new members

**Jennifer Hellar** from Cirrus Logic will be joining our meetings.  Jennifer is a key contact for benchmarking activity at Cirrus Logic.

## Actions from previous meetings

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios (carried forward).

- Carried forward, to be done once the new results are obtained.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to David Patterson's paper. Results to be shared in a spreadsheet with benchmark results and post to the mailing list (ongoing).

- Suggested we add more recent data points as new versions of Clang and GCC have been released:
  - Clang 15.0.0
  - GCC 11.3.0, 12.1.0, 12.2.0
- Suggested we use the latest binutils and newlib.
- Suggested to drop 12.0.1 as it was experimental at the time.

- Focus on getting datapoints both with baseline and newest binutils/newlib.
- Focus on getting datapoints by February 2023.
- Might we be able to share the Google spreadsheet with the latest benchmark results?

**Jeremy Bennett** to progress bit manipulation example from Embecosm into a future benchmark (carried forward).

- One of Embecosm's customers has some code which is very representative of the sort of bitfield manipulation common in embedded code, and for which we don't have a benchmark. They have said we can use it in Embench if we first make it anonymous.

## Journal paper on Embench

This paper is being prepared by Dave Patterson to be the definitive reference for the benchmark.

Paolo Savini, Mary Bennett and Hélène Chelin will present their latest results measuring Embench, Coremark and Dhrystone on MIPS, Arm and RISC-V hardware.

It is proposed that the outstanding action on Jeremy Bennett, Paolo Savini and Will Jones to review the results presented in July, which do not look credible is now dropped, since the new measurements will replace these.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) has collected submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull. We now need to close this document in order to make the new release.  The following benchmarks are proposed to be added:

- md5sum (needs cleaning up)
- primecount
- tarfind
- new bit-manipulation benchmark

The following are candidates for removal

- crc32 (too small to be credible)
- cubic (excessive use of double-precision floating point)
- nbody (vulnerable to over-optimization by compilers)

The following needs reworking

- st (code being hoisted out of main loop)

The proposed release date to coincide with Embedded World (15-16 March) is looking tight, but still achievable. Embecosm hope to schedule time to complete this work.

## Embench DSP 1.0

After our last monthly meeting, **Erin Olson** organized a meeting with Ray Simar and the very experienced Seagate team that is interested in helping with the DSP benchmarks.  They are also users of Embench and other benchmarks.

**Ray Simar** will work with Seagate team, et. al. on a list of key DSP benchmarks.  This list will be used to divide up the efforts going forward.  All are welcome to help.

Ray Simar's group have done great work bringing together Embench DSP. This is an opportunity to start thinking about when we might have an official release (carried over from previous month).

## Update to mailing lists

Our parent body, FOSSi has migrated all its mailing lists to Googlegroups, due to technical issues with the mailman server.

Everyone *should* have been migrated automatically. There is no change to the mailing list address, [embench@lists.librecores.org](mailto:embench@lists.librecores.org).

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Questions about Embench

This is an opportunity to ask questions of the group.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following pull requests have been received;
- [#176](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/176) Add WebAssembly target configuration
  - this patch allows use of Embench to compare the execution efficiency of different WebAssembly runtimes on SoC, without the presence of an operating system or browser
  - needs reviewing
  - Thanks to user I-mikan-I for this substantial contribution.
- [#175](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/175) Guard md5sum printf by DEBUG
  - the md5sum is a candidate new benchark for Embench 2.0, but includes I/O statements.
  - this patch guardes these with `#ifdef DEBUG` as a temporary fix before full cleanup and inclusion.
  - Merged. Thanks to user I-mikan-I for this contribution.
- [#173](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/173) pylib: add
  run_simulator runner
  - provides a simple simulator running interface
  - requested addition of documentation before merging
  - Thanks to user nmeum for this contribution

In adddition, the following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#153](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/153) Fix non-existing executables.
- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.
- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

The following issues have been raised this month.

- [#177](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/177) Remove I/O dependencies of md5sum benchmark
  - raised to capture the work needed fo fully resolve the problem address by PR [#175](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/175)
  - thanks to Jeremy bennett for raising this issue
- [#174](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/174) Discussing potential advantages of unaligned access and bi-endian hardware support
  - a user presents his hardware design and how Embench could help evaluate it
  - the user has been encouraged, but not sure that there is anything he wants fixing
  - will close shortly if there is no further discussion
  - thanks to Iztok Jeras for raising this issue

A total of 47 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 1 issue remains open.

## Next meeting

We meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are planned for 2023.

- Mon 20 Mar 2023
- Mon 17 Apr 2023
- Mon 15 May 2023
- Mon 19 Jun 2023
- Mon 17 Jul 2023
- Mon 21 Aug 2023
- Mon 18 Sep 2023
- Mon 16 Oct 2023
- Mon 20 Nov 2023
- Mon 11 Dec 2023 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB


Ray Simar \
Vice Chair
