# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 13 December 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

 **Action:** Jeremy Bennett and Paolo Savini to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios.

- deferred from previous meeting.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

## Actions from previous meeting

 **Action:** Jeremy Bennett and Paolo Savini to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios.

- deferred to next meeting.

**Action:** Pavel Tikhonov and Nidal Faour to come up with justification, explanation and process for summarizing for proposed Embench compiler benchmark. Then socialize with various computer groups to get feedback.

- see agenda item [A compiler benchmark for Embench](#a-compiler-benchmark-for-embench).

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

No new pull requests have been received.

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.
- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#147](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/147) Use calloc_beebs in md5sum.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.
- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

No new issues have been received this month.

Thanks to Roger Shepherd for raising this.

A total of 39 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 1 issue remains open.

## A compiler benchmark for Embench

The proposals from Pasha Tikhonov and Ofer Shinaar presented a more detailed summary of their proposal. In the ensuring discussion, it was agreed that a summary score was of no value, but instead a way of showing the results of individual benchmarks was shown.

It was noted that although the initial proposals were focused on code size optimization, the benchmark could in future be extended to include benchmarks for code speed optimization.

It was agreed the code must be self-checking.

## Google Summer of Code

Embench is part of the Free and Open Source Silicon Foundation (FOSSi), which in turn is an active participant in the Google Summer of Code, which provides stipends for students and early career engineers to work on open source projects.

We should take advantage of this to propose either medium (175 hour) or large (350 hour) projects to work on Embench.  The competitive selection process takes place in Q1/2022 and each project requires either 1 or 2 mentors to guide the student through the work.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.


## Publicity

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2022

- Mon 21 Feb 2022
- Mon 21 Mar 2022
- Mon 18 Apr 2022
- Mon 16 May 2022
- Mon 20 Jun 2022
- Mon 18 Jul 2022
- Mon 15 Aug 2022
- Mon 19 Sep 2022
- Mon 17 Oct 2022
- Mon 21 Nov 2022
- Mon 12 Dec 2022 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

 ## AOB


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice Chair
