# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 15 November 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

All members were welcomed. There were no new members.

## Actions from previous meeting

- **Paolo Savini** to prepare a short presentation to address the doubts about the execution speed measurements. See discussion on issue [#137](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/137) meeting, including some timings to show its performance.

  - **Complete.** Paolo presented his summary of how the calculation is done.  In the general discussion, it was agreed that the explanation was too complex.  It was agreed that a simpler explanation should focus just on time and time ratios.  **Action:** Jeremy Bennett and Paolo Savini to rework the slides to focus just on time and time ratios.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following new pull requests have been received.

- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.

Thanks to Maciej Dudek and user hirooih for these contributions.

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#147](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/147) Use calloc_beebs in md5sum.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.
- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub open issues

### From embench-iot:

There are no new issues this month. A total of 39 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month. 1 issue remains open.

## A compiler benchmark for Embench

Pavel Tikhonov presented his proposal to contribute the WD benchmarks for compilers to Embench.  His proposal is described in this [mailing list message](https://lists.librecores.org/pipermail/embench/2021-November/000160.html).

These are a set of test cases to exercise a compiler to find the weak points in compiled code. Discussion of what the purpose of the benchmark set is. General concensus that what matters is how well you do against individual benchmarks rather than having a summary score. Not directly mapping to resulting code size, but useful for compiler development.

Need an explanation of the motivation, where they came from and experience of their use.  Proposal agreed to add a compiler diagnostic microbenchmark to Embench.

**Action:** Pavel Tikhonov and Nidal Faour to come up with justification, explanation and process for summarizing. Then share with various computer groups.

## Google Summer of Code

Embench is part of the Free and Open Source Silicon Foundation (FOSSi), which in turn is an active participant in the Google Summer of Code, which provides stipends for students and early career engineers to work on open source projects.

We should take advantage of this to propose either medium (175 hour) or large (350 hour) projects to work on Embench.  The competitive selection process takes place in Q1/2022 and each project requires either 1 or 2 mentors to guide the student through the work.

The meeting deferred discussion of this to the next meeting.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

No new benchmarks were proposed this month.

## Publicity

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

And for 2022

- Mon 10 Jan 2022 (week 2 to avoid Martin Luther King Jr day)
- Mon 21 Feb 2022
- Mon 21 Mar 2022
- Mon 18 Apr 2022
- Mon 16 May 2022
- Mon 20 Jun 2022
- Mon 18 Jul 2022
- Mon 15 Aug 2022
- Mon 19 Sep 2022
- Mon 17 Oct 2022
- Mon 21 Nov 2022
- Mon 12 Dec 2022 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

 ## AOB


Paolo Savini\
