# Embench Meeting Agenda

Monday 11 January 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time (next day)

## Location

[Zoom meeting link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81535560831?pwd=a3dwUW5ncld5Wk5EM1ZkRmdxck9aUT09)

**Note.** This is a change from last year. We now have to have a password if
we are not to have a waiting room. The link includes the password encrypted.

Please email me if you have problems.

# Agenda topics

## Actions from previous meeting

- **Nidal Faour** to submit Pull request to fix issue [#103](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/103), Erin Olson, Mark Himelstein to review

	- Complete.

- **Ray Simar** and his team to give update at January 11 meeting.

	- See agenda item [Report from the Rice University team](#report-from-the-rice-university-team)

- **Ofer Shinaar, Ronen Haen** to submit pull-request to convert interrupt handling/context switching repository to a Python based build system.

	- Ofer & Ronen to provide status update.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to draft press release for review by David Patterson

	- In preparation for release on 19 January 2021. See agenda item

- **Ray Simar** to explore potential for joint announcement from Rice

	- In progress.

- **All** to consider providing quotations of support

	- Any quotes welcome.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to rename repositories to reflect market segment rather than engineering functionality, with redirection from existing repositories.

	- Complete. [embench-rt](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt) and [embench-dsp](https://github.com/embench/embench-dsp) created. `embench-context-latench` and `embench-fp` archived.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to follow up with EEMBC in early 2021 to discuss progress and explore whether they are yet ready to engage further.

	- Not progressed.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to follow up with Jon Taylor at Arm in early 2021 to explore whether they wish to engage more.

	- Not progressed.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

[#105](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/105) Resolve issue [#103](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/103).

- thanks to Nidal Faour for the fix.
- merged.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

[#106](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/106) Request for help setting up Gem simulator.

- invited to join meeting, issue assigned to Paolo Savini.
- thanks to user @guyue555 for raising this.

## Report from the Rice University team

Ray Simar and his team will give an update on their work, particularly with respect to the `embench-dsp` benchmarks.

## Reports on other benchmarks

An invitation for those working on benchmarks to report on progress

- Julian Kunkel, Paolo Savini and Roger Shepherd on `embench-iot` computational benchmarks (now open for candidate benchmarks for embench-iot 2.0).
- Ronen Haen, Ray Simar on `embench-rt` benchmarks

## Release 1.0 update of embench-iot

The draft press release will be presented at the meeting.

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 15 Feb 2021
- Mon 15 Mar 2021
- Mon 19 Apr 2021
- Mon 17 May 2021
- Mon 21 Jun 2021
- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide
automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
