# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 19 July 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

- **Nidal Faour** to report back on the progress with the new build system next meeting, including some timings to show its performance.

- **Paolo Savini** to review documentation to ensure the meaning is unamgigous, in consulation with Richard Chen.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

New participant, Richard Chen.

## Actions from previous meeting

**Bill McSpadden** to report back after reviewing RTOS context switch PR [#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/2) is new context switch benchmark.

- Reviewed, 5 issues to review:

  - number of CSRs to handle in conext switch seems light.
  - doesn't give impact on virtual memory (mgiht be a separte benchmark).
  - 10ms is a long time in simulation land - can we have a smaller value
  - code appears to be a list of NOPs - good baseline, but also need real code to exercise the pipeline (e.g. flushing/restoring).
  - slightly different view of context switch, about going from user to machine mode, rather than thread to thread (as in this PR). Might be RISC-V specific.

- code is good quality.

**Avishay Tvilva**, **Bill McSpadden** and **Ofer Shinaar** to lead a mailing list discussion of how to meet the needs of pre-silicon users.

- Deferred to next meeting.

**Jeremy Bennett** to add new build system to agenda for July 2021 meeting.

- Complete.  See agenda item [New build system](#new-build-system).

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following new pull requests have been received.

- [#138](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/138) Make custom malloc & realloc return aligned pointers.

  - thanks to Gianluca Andreotti for submitting this.
  - reviewed by Paolo Savini, needs small fix, but otherwise good.

The following issues are still open and under review:

- [#136](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/136) Add primecount test.

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.

- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

- [#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5sum benchmark added.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

The following new issue has been raised:

- [#137](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/137) Understanding Benchmark Speed score

  - thanks to user LaurelinTheGold for raising this.

A total of 36 issues remain open.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

No new benchmarks were proposed this month.

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## New build system

Nidal presented the new build system. Based on SABA (Sandisk Advanced Build system Automation), but will be renamed when open sourced.
- using the Scons build engine
- written in Python
- can use from Eclipse or command line
- has re-run and post-run scripts (simple)
- has plugin hooks (more complex)

**Action:** Nidal Faour to report back on the progress with the new build system next meeting, including some timings to show its performance.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

Paolo Savini has made a couple of changes to clean up benchmarks and explain the commits.

- tested and ready to be squashed and merged.

Mark Hill has been splitting Embench into an integer only set and a combined set, to give an explicit. Would this be useful, either as part of the benchmark, or as an associated analysis for users who would find it interesting.

There is an inconsistency over whether the Embench score for the baseline is normalized to 1MHz, although the benchmarks are run at 16MHz on the Arm processor.  The documentation and scripts seem to be inconsistent.

- **Action:** Paolo Savini to review documentation to ensure the meaning is unamgigous, in consulation with Richard Chen.

Gianluca Andreotti asked about the impact of dynamic frequency scaling on calculation of benchmark score

- less of an issue on embedded systems


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
