# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 21 June 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

**Bill McSpadden** to report back after reviewing RTOS context switch PR [#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/2) is new context switch benchmark.

**Avishay Tvilva**, **Bill McSpadden** and **Ofer Shinaar** to lead a mailing list discussion of how to meet the needs of pre-silicon users.

**Jeremy Bennett** to add new build system to agenda for July 2021 meeting.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

New participant Gianluca Andreotti was welcomed to the meeting.

## Actions from previous meeting

**Jeremy Bennett** to add the subjects of: i) compiler development benchmark suite; ii) proposed speed/rate metric; and iii) improved scripts to the agenda for the meeting on 21 June 2021.

- complete, having been delegated to **Paolo Savini** as Jeremy was on vacation on the previous week.

**Nidal Faour**, **Avishai Tvila** and **Ofer Shinaar** to prepare short briefing notes on the subjects to be discussed at the 21 June meeting.

- see agenda item [Speed/rate metric](#speedrate-metric)

**Ashwini** any updates on the porting of the TI benchmark of the AC motor model proposed by **Alexander Tessarolo** to a cached based system.

- see agenda item [TI benchmark for AC motor model](#ti-benchmark-for-ac-motor-model)

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

No new pull requests have been received.

The following are still open and under review:

- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.

- [#136](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/136) Add primecount test.

- [#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5sum benchmark added.

## New GitHub new open issues

No new issues raised.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

No new benchmarks were proposed this month.

## Publicity

All were invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## PR for RTOS context switch

PR [#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/2) is a new context switch benchmark.  Follows requirements from previous discussions.

Bill McSpadden offered to see he and his team could review it.

Julian Kunkel could provide code review.

**Action:** Bill McSpadden to report back after reviewing RTOS context switch PR [#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/2) is new context switch benchmark.

## TI benchmark for AC motor model

Avishay Tvila presented an update to the TI AC motor model benchmark.  These are the [slides](../supplementary-materials/SignalChainBenchmarking-Embench-Jun-2021.pdf).

The importance of supporting pre-silicon (RTL simulation etc) use cases was discussed.

**Action** Avishay Tvilva, Bill McSpadden and Ofer Shinaar to lead a mailing list discussion of how to meet the needs of pre-silicon users.

## Test cases benchmark

These are examples that find weak points in the compiler.  Grew out of RISC-V compiler development.

Need to decide on detail of what would be measured. That in turn requires a view on who the audience would be.  This is identified as compiler engineers.

Nidal to prepare new repository

## New build system

This proposal From Nidal Faour requires 30 minutes to present, so will be deferred to the July meeting.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett to add new build system to agenda for July 2021 meeting.

## Speed/rate metric

Avishay Tvila presented.

We came up with two options:

- Option A - Script will manage the result timeline

  The run script will get the start and end time from the test itself, after warm up.  The results will intersecting all harts running time.

- Option B - Embench 2.0 proposes a different way of measuring performance, comparing complete runs with different scaling factors. This will effectively eliminate any warm-up effect.

  Assuming scaling factors = the amount of iterations the test is running:

  Warm up Phase
    Run N iterations
  Test phase
    Run N+K iterations
  Result = (Time(N+K) - Time(N)) / K

We preferred Option B

## IoT Test for Interrupts

Need someone to repeat the work to run on the Arm Cortex-M4 reference board as a baseline.

Need a volunteer to do this.

Ofer to ask on the mailing list.

## Fields in JSON files for embench-iot-results repository

Parsing of fields is embedded in the Python parser. Would be good to separate this out into a template.

Possible student project.

Ofer to raise issue.

- Compiler weakness test cases

  We have few test cases, and still gathering more.
  We need to address the solution for maintaining it in Embench.
  E.g., different repo, audience, etc… Nidal will open the corresponding mail from the mailing list.

- Build system

  We asked to present our build system to Embench members (which we are willing to open source).
  The goal is to see if Embnech members would like it to be the Embench build system (for compiling and running all tests + future once).

- IoT test for interrupts
  We need resources to support the creation of reference results for this test (e.g. CM3/4 results). Without ref results we can not promote our EH1 results.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

None.


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
