# Embench Meeting Agenda

Monday 21 June 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

[Zoom meeting link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/557006550?pwd=eTFJNWszZDZhMGRwOCs4RDY3ZTFYQT09)

# Agenda topics

## Welcome new members

## Actions from previous meeting

**Jeremy Bennett** to add the subjects of: i) compiler development benchmark suite; ii) proposed speed/rate metric; and iii) improved scripts to the agenda for the meeting on 21 June 2021.
- delegated to **Paolo Savini** as Jeremy will be on vacation on the previous week.

**Nidal Faour**, **Avishai Tvila** and **Ofer Shinaar** to prepare short briefing notes on the subjects to be discussed at the 21 June meeting.

**Ashwini** any updates on the porting of the TI benchmark of the AC motor model proposed by **Alexander Tessarolo** to a cached based system.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

No new pull requests have been received.

The following are still open and under review:

- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.

- [#136](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/136) Add primecount test.

- [#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5sum benchmark added.

## New GitHub new open issues

No new issues raised.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

No new benchmarks were proposed this month.

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Items

**Nidal Faour**, **Avishai Tvila** and **Ofer Shinaar**:

- Speed/Rate metric
  We came up with two options:

  - Option A - Script will manage the result timeline

    The run script will get the start and end time from the test itself, after warm up.
    The results will intersecting all harts running time.

  - Option B - Embench 2.0 proposes a different way of measuring performance, comparing complete runs with different scaling factors. This will effectively eliminate any warm-up effect.

    Assuming scaling factors = the amount of iterations the test is running:
 
    Warm up Phase
        Run N iterations 
    Test phase
        Run N+K iterations
    Result = (Time(N+K) - Time(N)) / K
     

    We preferred Option B


- Compiler weakness test cases

    We have few test cases, and still gathering more.
    We need to address the solution for maintaining it in Embench.
    E.g., different repo, audience, etc… Nidal will open the corresponding mail from the mailing list.

- Build system

    We asked to present our build system to Embench members (which we are willing to open source).
    The goal is to see if Embnech members would like it to be the Embench build system (for compiling and running all tests + future once).

- IoT test for interrupts
    We need resources to support the creation of reference results for this test (e.g. CM3/4 results). Without ref results we can not promote our EH1 results.

**Ronen**:

- New PR for RTOS context switch
  - [#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/2) new context switch benchmark.

**Ashwini** and **Alexander Tessarolo**:

- Updates on the porting of the TI benchmark of the AC motor model proposed by Alexander to a cached based system.


## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 20 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB


Paolo Savini
