# Embench Meeting Agenda

Monday 20 September 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

[Zoom meeting link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/557006550?pwd=eTFJNWszZDZhMGRwOCs4RDY3ZTFYQT09)

# Agenda topics

## Welcome new members

## Actions from previous meetings

**Ray Simar** and **Bill McSpadden** to turn pre-silicon modeling into a student project.

**Ray Simar** to prepare abstract with **Bill McSpadden** for RISC-V Summit (25 minute talk or 10 minute lightning talk).

**Nidal Faour** to report back on progress with the new build system next meeting, including some timings to show its performance.

- This was deferred from the previous meeting, but since it is a holiday in Israel on 20 September, the item will be deferred again to the October meeting.

**Paolo Savini** to review documentation to ensure the meaning is unamgigous, in consulation with Richard Chen.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following pull requests have been reviewed and merged.

- [#142](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/142) Add primecount test.
- [#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5sum benchmark added.

Thanks to Paolo Savini and Julian Kunkel for these contributions.

There are no new pull requests this month.

The following issues are still open and under review:

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 38 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

- [#4](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/issues/4) Promote Latency result

  - raised by Ofer Shinaar
  - assigned to Jeremy Bennett and Nati Rapaport

## Further work on embench-rt

At a meeting earlier this year, there was a student volunteer to work on the Embench Real-Time project. Unfortunately, the minutes did not record the name of that volunteer. The Embench-RT team would be very pleased to make contact with the volunteer.

## New build system

Progress report by Nidal Faour to be deferred to the October meeting.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

No new benchmarks have been proposed this month.

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett \
Vice Chair
