# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 16 August 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

**Ray Simar** and **Bill McSpadden** to turn pre-silicon modeling into a student project.

**Ray Simar** to prepare abstract with **Bill McSpadden** for RISC-V Summit (25 minute talk or 10 minute lightning talk).

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

There were no new participants at this meeting.

## Actions from previous meeting

**Avishay Tvilva**, **Bill McSpadden** and **Ofer Shinaar** to lead a mailing
list discussion of how to meet the needs of pre-silicon users (deferred from
earlier meeting).

- Complete.

  - Discussion started in the meeting, something to keep in mind for the future.
  - Could be a great student project. **Action:** Ray Simar and Bill McSpadden to turn pre-silicon modeling into a student project.

**Nidal Faour** to report back on the progress with the new build system next
meeting, including some timings to show its performance.

- Deferred to next meeting.

**Paolo Savini** to review documentation to ensure the meaning is unamgigous,
in consulation with Richard Chen.

- Not had a chance to do this month, but reached out to Richard by email

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following new pull requests have been received.

- [#142](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/142) Add primecount test.

  - thanks to Paolo Savini for submitting this.
  - now merged.

The following issues are still open and under review:

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset from .json config.

- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

- [#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5sum benchmark added.

  - ready to be merged.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

The following new issues have been raised:

- [#141](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/141) Unable to run benchmarks.

  - thanks to user Abraham Castaneda for raising this.
  - user seems to be having GDB server issues
  - assigned to Paolo Savini

- [#140](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/140) Board declaration necessary?

  - thanks to user Abraham Castaneda for raising this.
  - user needs help on setting up to test a new board and architecture
  - preliminary advice given.

A total of 38 issues remain open.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

No new benchmarks were proposed this month.

## Publicity

Noted that getting the word out about Embench. Target retrospective paper at Embedded World in February 2022.

Suggest a presentation at RISC-V Summit focussing on role of Embench within the academic community and working with industry to solve issue of pre-silicon (simulation) benchmarking. **Note:** RISC-V Summit is combined with DAC and in San Francisco. Deadline is 10 September.

- **Action:** Ray Simar to prepare abstract with Bill McSpadden for RISC-V Summit (25 minute talk or 10 minute lightning talk).

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

Suggestion from Ibrahim Abu Kharmeh to have better naming for log names in the scripts.

Question from Ofer Shinaar, asked for more detail from Bill McSpadden regarding PR [#2](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/pull/2). Bill and Ofer to talk offline.

Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
