# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 17 May 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** to add the subjects of: i) compiler development benchmark suite; ii) proposed speed/rate metric; and iii) improved scripts to the agenda for the meeting on 21 June 2021.

**Nidal Faour**, **Avishai Tvila** and **Ofer Shinaar** to prepare short
briefing notes on the subjects to be discussed at the 21 June meeting.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

## Actions from previous meeting

**Avishai Tvila** and **Ofer Shinaar** to revise their speed/rate metric proposal in the light on comments received.

- Because 17 May is a public holiday in Israel, this action is deferred to
  June.

**Nidal Faour** to review comments and bring back a proposal for how to incorporate the Western Digital code density benchmarks within the Embench family

- Because 17 May is a public holiday in Israel, this action is deferred to
  June.

**Alexander Tessarolo** to work on proposal on how to turn the TI benchmark of an AC motor model into a real-time benchmark for general use.

- Ashwini actively working on this. Porting to a cached based system. What metrics to use. Possibly by next meeting.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.

- [#136](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/127) Add primecount test.

Thanks to Philipp Krones, user temap and Paolo Savini for these PRs.

## New GitHub new open issues

No new issues raised.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

Paolo Savini has been working on adding two new benchmarks.

- The `primecount` test from Bruce Hoult of SiFve. He will give an update on this.  The former has been scaled to better match the reference Cortex M4 platform and is ready for review

- The `md5sum` test from Julian Kunkel

Trying to persuade Paolo's old professor to get students involved. Engage with Ray's team to contribute. David can help.

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Items for June meeting

Because Monday 17 May is a public holiday, the Western Digital team were unable to join the meeting, the following items will be considered at the June meeting:

- From Nidal Faour, a new suite of code size examples, specifically aimed at compiler development (see [this thread](https://lists.librecores.org/pipermail/embench/2021-March/000112.html)).

- From Avishai Tvila and Ofer Shinaar an update on their proposed speed/rate metric (see the [proposal](../supplementary-materials/speed-and-rate-metric.adoc) and the [mailing list discussion](https://lists.librecores.org/pipermail/embench/2021-March/000101.html)).

- Nidal Faour will start work on improving the scripts use to build and run the benchmarks and is seeking input from the community on the requirements.

The chair asked if the proposers could provide a short briefing note in
advance of the meeting.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett to add the subjects of: i) compiler development
benchmark suite; ii) proposed speed/rate metric; and iii) improved scripts to
the agenda for the meeting on 21 June 2021.

**Action:** Nidal Faour, Avishai Tvila and Ofer Shinaar to prepare short
briefing notes on the subjects to be discussed at the 21 June meeting.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 21 Jun 2021
- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB

None.


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
