# Embench Meeting Agenda

Monday 17 May 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

**Note.** The Zoom link has changed this month.

[Zoom meeting link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/557006550?pwd=eTFJNWszZDZhMGRwOCs4RDY3ZTFYQT09)

Please email me if you have problems.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome new members

## Actions from previous meeting

**Avishai Tvila** and **Ofer Shinaar** to revise their speed/rate metric proposal in the light on comments received.

- Because 17 May is a public holiday in Israel, this action is deferred to
  June.

**Nidal Faour** to review comments and bring back a proposal for how to incorporate the Western Digital code density benchmarks within the Embench family

- Because 17 May is a public holiday in Israel, this action is deferred to
  June.

**Alexander Tessarolo** to work on proposal on how to turn the TI benchmark of an AC motor model into a real-time benchmark for general use.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following new pull requests have been received.

- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.

- [#136](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/127) Add primecount test.

Thanks to Philipp Krones, user temap and Paolo Savini for thes PRs.

## New GitHub new open issues

No new issues raised.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

Paolo Savini has been working on adding two new benchmarks, the `primecount` test from Bruce Hoult of SiFve, and the `md5sum` test from Julian Kunkel. He will give an update on this.

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Items for June meeting

Because Monday 17 May is a public holiday, the Western Digital team will not be joining the meeting, the following items will be considered at the June meeting:

- From Nidal Faour, a new suite of code size examples, specifically aimed at compiler development (see [this thread](https://lists.librecores.org/pipermail/embench/2021-March/000112.html)).

- From Avishai Tvila and Ofer Shinaar an update on their proposed speed/rate metric (see the [proposal](../supplementary-materials/speed-and-rate-metric.adoc) and the [mailing list discussion](https://lists.librecores.org/pipermail/embench/2021-March/000101.html)).

- Nidal Faour will start work on improving the scripts use to build and run the benchmarks and is seeking input from the community on the requirements.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 21 Jun 2021
- Mon 19 Jul 2021
- Mon 16 Aug 2021
- Mon 21 Sep 2021
- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

I've recreated a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide
automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett\
Vice chair
