# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 20 September 2021

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

**Ray Simar** to prepare abstract with for a lightning talk for RISC-V Summit (10 minute talk) and to find students for that.

**Paolo Savini** to prepare a short presentation to address the doubts about the execution speed measurements
- [#137](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/137) Understanding Benchmark Speed score.

Investigate the possibility and benefits of adding an instruction count alongside the existing cycle count measurement.

**Nidal Faour** to report back on progress with the new build system next meeting, including some timings to show its performance.

- This was deferred from the previous meeting, but since it is a holiday in Israel on 20 September, the item will be deferred again to the October meeting.


# Agenda topics

## Welcome

There were no new participants at this meeting.

## Actions from previous meeting

**Ray Simar** and **Bill McSpadden** to turn pre-silicon modeling into a student projecti.

  - Thanks to **Bill McSpadden** and **Erin Olson** for summirizing the task at hand and thanks to **Jeremy Bennett** for suggesting Icarus. It is an interesting option and we'll keep it in mind.

**Ray Simar** to prepare abstract with **Bill McSpadden** for RISC-V Summit (25 minute talk or 10 minute lightning talk).

  - There were delays in pulling together the team due to a covid outbreak.
  - There's a growing number of students who want to work on RISC-V based accelerators and on Embench. There's not enough time to prepare something for a 25 minute talk for RISC-V Summit. **Ray Simar** will sort something out for a 10 minutes lightning talk. This will help spreading the word about Embench and get some feedback.

**Nidal Faour** to report back on progress with the new build system next meeting, including some timings to show its performance.

- This was deferred from the previous meeting, but since it is a holiday in Israel on 20 September, the item will be deferred again to the October meeting.

**Paolo Savini** to review documentation to ensure the meaning is unamgigous,
in consulation with Richard Chen.

- He didn't manage to reach out but he reviewed the documentation and prepared an explanation for the doubts that focuses on the two main sources of confusion: the normalization and the speed scores.
  He'll prepare a short presentation and update the documentation accordingly.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following new pull requests have been reviewed and merged.

- [#142](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/142) Add primecount test.
- [#104](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/104) MD5sum benchmark added.

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset from .json config.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:


There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 38 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

- [#4](https://github.com/embench/embench-rt/issues/4) Promote Latency result

  - raised by Ofer Shinaar
  - assigned to Jeremy Bennett and Nati Rapaport

## Further work on embench-rt

At a meeting earlier this year, there was a student volunteer to work on the Embench Real-Time project. Unfortunately, the minutes did not record the name of that volunteer. The Embench-RT team would be very pleased to make contact with the volunteer.

## New build system

Progress report by Nidal Faour to be deferred to the October meeting.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

No new benchmarks were proposed this month.

## Publicity

Noted that getting the word out about Embench. Target retrospective paper at Embedded World in February 2022.

Suggest a presentation at RISC-V Summit focussing on role of Embench within the academic community and working with industry to solve issue of pre-silicon (simulation) benchmarking. **Note:** RISC-V Summit is combined with DAC and in San Francisco. Deadline is 10 September. Due to a delay caused by an outbreak of covid at Rice we settled for a 10 minutes lightning talk.

- **Action:** Ray Simar to prepare abstract for RISC-V Summit (10 minute lightning talk).

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2021

- Mon 18 Oct 2021
- Mon 15 Nov 2021
- Mon 13 Dec 2021 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

Jeremy created a calendar entry for our regular attendees, to provide automated reminders. Please ask if you wish to be added to this.

## AOB


Paolo Savini\
