# Embench Meeting Agenda

Monday 11 December 2022

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time

## Location

For those attending in person, the meeting will be in the San Jose Convention Center, room 230C. The room will be open from 07:30. For those joining remotely, we have the regular [Zoom meeting link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/557006550?pwd=eTFJNWszZDZhMGRwOCs4RDY3ZTFYQT09)

# Agenda topics

## Welcome new members

## Actions from previous meetings

**Jeremy Bennett**, **Paolo Savini** and **Will Jones** to review Embench
results to date.

- Carried forward.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios (carried forward).

- Carried forward.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to David Patterson's paper. Results to be shared in a spreadsheet with benchmark results and post to the mailing list (ongoing).

- Suggested we add more recent data points as new versions of Clang and GCC have been released:
  - Clang 15.0.0
  - GCC 11.3.0, 12.1.0, 12.2.0
- Suggested we use the latest binutils and newlib.
- Suggested to drop 12.0.1 as it was experimental at the time.

- Focus on getting datapoints both with baseline and newest binutils/newlib.

**Jeremy Bennett** to progress bit manipulation example from Embecosm into a future benchmark (carried forward).

- One of Embecosm's customers has some code which is very representative of the sort of bitfield manipulation common in embedded code, and for which we don't have a benchmark. They have said we can use it in Embench if we first make it anonymous.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

No new pull requests have been received this month.

The following pull request was closed, since there was no follow up from the orignator to the response given.

- [#172](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/172) nettle-sha256 does not work with CFI that enforces types

The following pull request was closed by the author, since the code had become stale.

- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#153](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/153) Fix non-existing executables.
- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.
- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

There are no new issues this month:

A total of 45 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 1 issue remains open.

## Journal paper on Embench

This paper is being prepared by Dave Patterson to be the definitive reference for the benchmark.

There is an outstanding action on Jeremy Bennett, Paolo Savini and Will Jones to review the results presented in July, which do not look credible.

## Questions about Embench

This is an opportunity to ask questions of the group.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

It looks like the release date for Embench IoT 2.0 will not be 1 January 2023. Embecosm hope to schedule some time to complete all the new work during Q1. An announcement for Embedded World (15-16 March) would be good.

## Embench DSP 1.0

Ray Simar's group have done great work bringing together Embench DSP. This is an opportunity to start thinking about when we might have an official release.

## Publicity

Ray Simar group will be presenting “New DSP Extensions to the Embench Benchmark Suite" at the RSIC-V Summit.  The presentation will be on Wednesday (12/14) at 11:45 AM - 12:05 PM.  Details in the [official schedule](https://sched.co/1CD5d).

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are planned for 2023.  We do not hold a meeting in January, because it invariably clashes with Martin Luther King Jr Day.

- Mon 20 Feb 2023
- Mon 20 Mar 2023
- Mon 17 Apr 2023
- Mon 15 May 2023
- Mon 19 Jun 2023
- Mon 17 Jul 2023
- Mon 21 Aug 2023
- Mon 18 Sep 2023
- Mon 16 Oct 2023
- Mon 20 Nov 2023
- Mon 11 Dec 2023 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett \
Vice Chair
