# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 21 February 2022

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time (next day)

## Summary of actions

 **Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios.

- deferred from previous meeting.

**Ray Simar** to investigate if any programs in [Energy efficiency across programming languages: how do energy, time, and memory relate?](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3136014.3136031) are suitable for Embench 2.0.

**Dave Patterson** to lead putting together a refereed journal paper on Embench, starting with circulating an outline.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to Dave Patterson.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

- David Harris of Harvey Mudd College
- Andrew Obler of Rice University
- Bill McFadden is now working for RISC-V International driving SAIL modeling.

## Actions from previous meeting

 **Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios.

- deferred to next meeting.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

The following pull requests were received since our last meeting:

- [#155](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/155) RISC-V compilation example

  - Better help for beginners
  - Merged
  - Thanks to David Harris for the patch

- [#153](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/153) Fix non-existing executables.

  - Friendlier handling of failures in tests
  - Suggestions for further improvements made
  - Thanks to Daniel Schultz for the patch

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.
- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#147](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/147) Use calloc_beebs in md5sum.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.
- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

The following issues have been received

- [#156](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/156) json-comma and no-json-comma option cause error
- [#154](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/154) Adding const function attribute to sqrt function in math.h will reduce the execution time for 'nbody' benchmark significantly

Thanks to Huaqi Fang and Tilak Girijeswar for raising these.

A total of 41 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 1 issue remains open.

## Google Summer of Code

We currently have three projects proposed for GSoC under the FOSSi umbrella

- Embench DSP Extensions
- Embench Interrupt Latency benchmark
- Porting Compiler test-suite (micro-benchmarks) to Embench

Thanks to Ray Simar and Ofer Kindgren for putting these together. These will be used to help justify FOSSi having projects sponsored by Google. We still have an opportunity to refine these projects or add new projects.  The current list is beign put together by the Org Admin for FOSSi, Jonathan Balkind, [here](https://github.com/Jbalkind/fossi-foundation.github.io/blob/gsoc22-ideas/gsoc22-ideas.md).

## Questions about Embench

This is a new item on the agenda, but it seems a good idea. David Harris, a new user of Embench has asked:

**Question:** I’d like to learn whether there is a standard way that RISC-V processors are instrumented to report CYCLES and MINSTRET from the Embench tests, or whether that’s something I need to write and link to the code.

- Suggest looking at existing target module code in the `pylib` directory.

**Question:** Is there a standard way that the benchmarks terminate.  For example, riscv-arch-test terminates with a call to the HTIF by writing a success/failure code to tohost, and my Verilog testbench detects that for termination.  It appears the uninstrumented testbench terminates with a return instruction.

- Noted that the benchmarks return zero on success, non-zero otherwise.  Options include replacing the system `exit` function to perform any exit behavior.  Suggested approach using HTIF has been used by the team at Seagate.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

Dave Patterson reported on a paper benchmarking programming languages [Energy efficiency across programming languages: how do energy, time, and memory relate?](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3136014.3136031). Has 13 programs written in lots of languages, which could be candidates for Embench IoT 2.0.

**Action:** Ray Simar to investigate if any programs in [Energy efficiency across programming languages: how do energy, time, and memory relate?](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3136014.3136031) are suitable for Embench 2.0.

## Publicity

Should we write a refereed journal paper? Add GSoC students as co-author. Angles to consider:
- CoreMark and Dhrystone are not representative
- Impact of Embench
- Automation of Embench
- Lessons from Embench IoT 1.0

**Action:** Dave Patterson to lead putting together a refereed journal paper on Embench, starting with circulating an outline.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett and Paolo Savini to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to Dave Patterson.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following are the dates for the remainder of 2022

- Mon 21 Mar 2022
- Mon 25 Apr 2022 (week 4 to keep clear of Easter Monday)
- Mon 16 May 2022 (Jeremy Bennett to chair)
- Mon 20 Jun 2022
- Mon 18 Jul 2022
- Mon 15 Aug 2022
- Mon 19 Sep 2022
- Mon 17 Oct 2022
- Mon 21 Nov 2022
- Mon 12 Dec 2022 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB

**Question:** Would it be interesting to run Embench against SAIL models of RISC-V.

- General consensus thought it would be an interesting use case.

**Comment:** Need to make it easier to get going with Embench as a new user. Should only be a matter of needing to do the instrumentation. And there should be reference implementations for major achitectures.

- A few examples would make it easier fof new users.
- Suggestion that Embench group members might be able to act as external advisors for student projects aiming to improve Embench.


Jeremy Bennett \
Vice Chair
