# Embench Meeting Agenda

Monday 19 September 2022

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

[Zoom meeting link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/557006550?pwd=eTFJNWszZDZhMGRwOCs4RDY3ZTFYQT09)

# Agenda topics

## Welcome new members

## Actions from previous meetings

**Jeremy Bennett**, **Paolo Savini** and **Will Jones** to review Embench results to date (carried forward).

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios (carried forward).

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to David Patterson's paper. Results to be shared in a spreadsheet with benchmark results and post to the mailing list (ongoing).

- in progress, data looking at size of RV32E and impact of Zc* extension obtained.

**Jeremy Bennett** to progress bit manipulation example from Embecosm into a future benchmark (carried forward).

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

No new pull requests have been received this month.

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#153](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/153) Fix non-existing executables.
- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.
- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

One new issue has been opened this month:

- [#171](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/171) nsichneu use of volatile keyword
  - thanks to user axiomlegend for raising this.
  - explanation given than where possible, benchmarks are left unchanged "warts and all".
  - marked as closed.

A total of 45 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 1 issue remains open.

## Journal paper on Embench

This paper is being prepared by Dave Patterson to be the definitive reference for the benchmark.

There is an outstanding action on Jeremy Bennett, Paolo Savini and Will Jones to review the results presented in July, which do not look credible.

Embecosm have refreshed data for RISC-V RV32E size using GCC 12.2:

|Statistic|RV32I|RV32IM|RV32IC|RV32IMC|RV32E|RV32EM|RV32EC|RV32EMC|
|---------|----:|-----:|-----:|------:|----:|-----:|-----:|------:|
|Geomean  | 1.52|  1.46|  1.06|   1.03| 1.72|  1.64|  1.15|   1.11|
|Geo SD   | 1.21|  1.23|  1.22|   1.23| 1.25|  1.26|  1.23|   1.24|
|Geomin   | 1.25|  1.19|  0.86|   0.84| 1.37|  1.30|  0.93|   0.90|
|Geomax   | 1.85|  1.79|  1.29|   1.27| 2.16|  2.06|  1.42|   1.38|
|Geo range| 0.59|  0.60|  0.43|   0.43| 0.78|  0.76|  0.49|   0.48|

These data need to be replicated for code speed and similar results obtained for CoreMark and Dhrystone.

Preliminary data have also been obtained for the impact of the RISC-V Zc* draft extension.

## Questions about Embench

This is an opportunity to ask questions of the group.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

## Publicity

All are invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following dates are proposed for 2022. Dates for 2023 will be proposed next month.

- Mon 17 Oct 2022
- Mon 21 Nov 2022
- Mon 12 Dec 2022 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett \
Vice Chair
