# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 25 April 2022

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios.

- carrried forward from previous meeting.

**Ray Simar** and **Will Jones** (Embecosm) to investigate TinyMLPerf.

- carried forward from previous meeting.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to Dave Patterson.

- in progress, held open

**Jeremy Bennett** to progress bit manipulation example from Embecosm into a future benchmark.

- carried forward from previous meeting

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to prepare spreadsheet with benchmark results and post to the mailing list.

# Agenda topics

## Welcome

Maxim Blinov, Embecosm
William Jones, Embecsom
Daniel Torres

## Actions from previous meeting

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios.

- deferred to future  meeting.

**Ray Simar** to investigate if any programs in [Energy efficiency across programming languages: how do energy, time, and memory relate?](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3136014.3136031) are suitable for Embench 2.0.

- complete - see discussion below.

**Ray Simar** and **Will Jones** (Embecosm) to investigate TinyMLPerf.

- deferred to future meeting.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to Dave Patterson.

- in progress - problems with Clang/LLVM testing.

**Jeremy Bennett** to progress bit manipulation example from Embecosm into a future benchmark.

- deferred to future meeting.

**Jeremy Bennett** to provide details of Embench to RISC-V International for their web page on benchmarks.

- complete.

## GitHub pull requests

### From embench-iot:

No new pull requests were received since our last meeting.  The following pull request was closed by the submitter.

- [#133](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/133) run_all.py: Allow run benchmark runset fron .json config.

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#153](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/153) Fix non-existing executables.
- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.
- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#147](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/147) Use calloc_beebs in md5sum.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

The following issues have been received

- [#159](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/159) Does Embench support RISCV64 ISA
  - replied and closed.

Thanks to user mollybuild for raising this.

A total of 42 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 1 issue remains open.

## Journal paper on Embench

## Journal paper on Embench

This paper is being prepared by Dave Patterson to be the definitive reference for the benchmark.

Paolo Savini and Jeremy Bennett will give an update on their data gathering.  They are aiming to get Embench, CoreMark and Dhrystone scores for the following architectures/boards:
- Arm Cortex M4 (STM Disovery board @ 16MHz)
- 32-bit RISC-V (SiFive HiFive1 board rev B)
- 32-bit MIPS core (MicroChip Curiosity PIC32 MX470)
- 32-bit RISC-V (CHIP EH1 Verilator model)

The infrastructure is now in place, but technical difficulties with Clang/LLVM mean that results are not yet available.

**Action.** Jeremy Bennett and Paolo Savini to prepare spreadsheet with benchmark results and post to the mailing list.

Maxim Blinov presented his work on Combined Elimination, showing the use of Embench in compiler optimization.

## Google Summer of Code

FOSSi (our parent organization) has been accepted as a GSoC 2022 organization. We proposed three project ideas on the [FOSSi list](https://www.fossi-foundation.org/gsoc22-ideas)

- Embench DSP Extensions, mentored by Ray Simar.
- Embench Interrupt Latency benchmark, mentored by Ofer Shinaar and colleagues.
- Porting Compiler test-suite (micro-benchmarks) to Embench, mentored by Ofer Shinaar and colleagues.

Unfortunately, although a number of people showed interest, there were no applications for any of these projects.

Thanks to Ray Simar and Ofer Shinaar for putting these together.

## Analysis of Energy efficiency across programming languages: how do energy, time, and memory relate

Looking at a set of 13 benchmarks comparing across compilers and languages. Memory footprints generally too large for Embench IoT

Interesting points
- time tool to look at peak memory usage
- RAPL to measure energy usage

Used a single Intel Haswell platform for all tests.

Conclusion
- C is the fastest and most energy efficient
- Noted that Embedded space is the only one where executition speed is not always the priority.

Ray Simar is considering reproducing this flow and results for the fall term with some of his senior students.

## Questions about Embench

No questions this month.

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

## Publicity

There is an opportunity to speak at the London RISC-V meetup in July.

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

The following are the dates for the remainder of 2022

- Mon 16 May 2022 (Jeremy Bennett to chair)
- Mon 20 Jun 2022
- Mon 18 Jul 2022
- Mon 15 Aug 2022
- Mon 19 Sep 2022
- Mon 17 Oct 2022
- Mon 21 Nov 2022
- Mon 12 Dec 2022 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett \
Vice Chair
