# Embench Meeting Minutes

Monday 21 November 2022

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 16:00-17:00 UTC
- 16:00-17:00 UK Time
- 17:00-18:00 Central European Time
- 00:00-01:00 Beijing Time

## Summary of actions

# Agenda topics

## Welcome new members

## Actions from previous meeting

**Dave Patterson** to try to organize a room for the December committee meeting at the RISC-V Summit.

- **COMPLETE.** We will be in room 230C, which is available for 2 hours from 07:30 PT (30 minutes for our start time).

**Jeremy Bennett**, **Paolo Savini** and **Will Jones** to review Embench
results to date.

- Carried forward.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to rework the presentation on execution speed measurements to focus just on time and time ratios (carried forward).

- Carried forward.

**Jeremy Bennett** and **Paolo Savini** to run some tests using both CoreMark and Dhrystone as well as Embench as input data to David Patterson's paper. Results to be shared in a spreadsheet with benchmark results and post to the mailing list (ongoing).

- Suggested we add more recent data points as new versions of Clang and GCC have been released:
  - Clang 15.0.0
  - GCC 11.3.0, 12.1.0, 12.2.0
- Suggested we use the latest binutils and newlib.
- Suggested to drop 12.0.1 as it was experimental at the time.

- Focus on getting datapoints both with baseline and newest binutils/newlib.

**Jeremy Bennett** to progress bit manipulation example from Embecosm into a future benchmark (carried forward).

One of Embecosm's customers has some code which is very representative of the sort of bitfield manipulation common in embedded code, and for which we don't have a benchmark. They have said we can use it in Embench if we first make it anonymous.

### From embench-iot:

No new pull request since our last meeting

The following pull requests are still open and under review:

- [#153](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/153) Fix non-existing executables.
- [#152](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/152) Remove debug printfs from md5sum.
- [#151](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/151) Some fixes for build scripts.
- [#148](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/148) Board config for Freedom E310 Arty FPGA.
- [#145](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/145) Add --benchmark and --exclude options to scripts fore debugging.
- [#144](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/144) Replace pyelftools with lief.
- [#130](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/pull/130) Improve JSON output of benchmarking.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new pull requests this month and none remain open and under review.

## New GitHub new open issues

### From embench-iot:

One new issue has been opened this month:

- [#172](https://github.com/embench/embench-iot/issues/172) nettle-sha256 does not work with CFI that enforces types
  - thanks to Isaac Richter for raising this.
  - explanation given than where possible, benchmarks are left unchanged "warts and all".
  - wxill be marked as closed after a short period to allow for futher comments.

A total of 46 issues remain open.

### From embench-rt:

There are no new issues raised this month.

A total of 1 issue remains open.

## Journal paper on Embench

This paper is being prepared by Dave Patterson to be the definitive reference for the benchmark.

There is an outstanding action on Jeremy Bennett, Paolo Savini and Will Jones to review the results presented in July, which do not look credible.

## Questions about Embench

## New benchmarks for Embench IoT 2.0

The [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kFBsA6VEQfJ8yG6wbBwgiY6GKOYLVNJvqIfqKYYyX60/edit?usp=sharing) is now open for submissions, for both new benchmarks and benchmarks to cull.

## Publicity

All were invited to report back, including on opportunities for meetings where Embench should be presented.

Ray Simar group will be presenting â€œNew DSP Extensions to the Embench Benchmark Suite" at the RISC-V Summit.  The presentation will be on Wednesday (12/14) at 11:45 AM - 12:05 PM.  Details in the [official schedule](https://sched.co/1CD5d).

## Next meeting

We currently meet regularly on the third Monday of each month 8-9am California time.

Our last meeting of 2022 is on Monday 12 December at 08:00 Pacific Time. This will be a hybrid meeting held in room 230C of the RISC-V conference for those able to attend in person. We will also have the Zoom call set up for those joining remotely.

The following dates are planned for 2023.  We do not hold a meeting in January, because it invariably clashes with Martin Luther King Jr Day.

- Mon 20 Feb 2023
- Mon 20 Mar 2023
- Mon 17 Apr 2023
- Mon 15 May 2023
- Mon 19 Jun 2023
- Mon 17 Jul 2023
- Mon 21 Aug 2023
- Mon 18 Sep 2023
- Mon 16 Oct 2023
- Mon 20 Nov 2023
- Mon 11 Dec 2023 (week 2, to keep clear of Christmas)

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett \
Vice Chair
